Improve the clarity of the Iceberg data connector (#1106)
spiceai/docs: website/docs/components/data-connectors/iceberg.md

description: 'Connect to and query Apache Iceberg tables'
---

The Iceberg Data Connector helps query [Apache Iceberg](https://iceberg.apache.org/) tables using federated SQL. Every Iceberg dataset requires an Iceberg catalog to provide table metadata and manage access.

When working with multiple datasets, it is recommended to use a catalog connector (instead of a data connector), such as the [Iceberg Catalog Connector](/docs/components/catalogs/iceberg.md) or [AWS Glue Catalog Connector](/docs/components/catalogs/glue.md) instead of configuring individual datasets.

Iceberg catalogs can be of several types:

- **Iceberg REST Catalog**: The most common and recommended approach. REST Catalogs expose Iceberg tables over HTTP(S) endpoints and are compatible with most managed Iceberg services and cloud providers.
- **AWS Glue Catalog**: Integrates with AWS Glue as a catalog provider, supporting Iceberg tables stored in S3. This is the preferred method for AWS environments.
- **Hadoop-style Catalogs**: Use file-based storage (e.g., `file://`, `s3://`, `s3a://`) to manage table metadata. This approach is less common and typically used for local development or legacy deployments.

> :::warning[Hadoop-style Catalogs] For production and cloud environments, REST and AWS Glue catalogs are recommended. Hadoop-style catalogs are supported but less common and not recommended for most new deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning[Hadoop-style Catalogs]

For production and cloud environments, REST and AWS Glue catalogs are recommended. Hadoop-style catalogs are supported but less common and not recommended for most new deployments.

```

### `from`

> The `from` field specifies the Iceberg table to connect to, in the format `iceberg:<table_path>`. The `table_path` is the URL to the Iceberg table in the catalog provider. For REST Catalogs, use the format `http[s]://<iceberg_catalog_host>/v1/{prefix}/namespaces/<namespace_name>/tables/<table_name>`. For AWS Glue, use the format `https://glue.<region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg/v1/catalogs/<account_id>/namespaces/<namespace_name>/tables/<table_name>`, where `<account_id>` is your AWS account ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `from` field specifies the Iceberg table to connect to, in the format `iceberg:<table_path>`. The `table_path` is the URL to the Iceberg table in the catalog provider.
For REST Catalogs, use the format `http[s]://<iceberg_catalog_host>/v1/{prefix}/namespaces/<namespace_name>/tables/<table_name>`.
For AWS Glue catalogs, the URL format is `https://glue.<region>.amazonaws.com/iceberg/v1/catalogs/<account_id>/namespaces`, where `<account_id>` is the AWS account ID. While possible to connect to Iceberg tables hosted by Glue using this generic connector, it is recommended to instead use the [AWS Glue Data Connector](/docs/components/data-connector/glue.md) for connecting to Iceberg tables managed by Glue for a better experience.
```
